This file documents GNU VCDImager, The GNU Video CD Image Maker

   Copyright (C) Herbert Valerio Riedel <hvr@gnu.org>



   Permission is granted to make and distributed verbatim copies of this
manual, provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

   Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of
this manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

   Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be stated in a
translation approved by Herbert Valerio Riedel.

Table of Contents
*****************


Introduction

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
  Preamble
  Appendix: How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

Video CD Concepts
  General Information
  Anatomy of Video CDs
  Known Video CD Flavors
    Video CD 1.1
    Video CD 2.0
    Extended Video CD
    Super Video CD 1.0
    Extended Super Video CD

Reference
  `vcdimager' Tool
    Requirements For input MPEG streams
      Video CD
      Super Video CD
      Common Constraints
    Adding Files to the Video CD
    CD-i Support
  `vcdrip' Tool

Examples
  Simple Multitrack Example
  MPEG Extraction

Acronym Expansions


Introduction
************

   This manual describes the "GNU VCDImager"(1) package, which provides
a front end, `vcdimager', for generating CD-ROM image files suitable
for being burned to CD recordables. It takes MPEG movie files as input
and generates an image file and a cue-sheet file which can be fed to
any CD-recording program which understands the BIN/CUE-format, like
cdrdao(2) for instance.

Features of the back end library(3), on which all front ends relay,
include:

   * Video CD 1.1 image output support

   * Video CD 2.0 image output support

   * Super Video CD 1.0 image output support

   * general facility for adding files as mode 2 form 1 and 2 sectors to
     the ISO9660 file-system and setting the ISO9660 volume label and
     application id fields.

   * support for up to 98 MPEG tracks per (Super) Video CD.

   * supports 99 minute CD-R media(4).


   Also contained in this package is `vcdrip', a tool for dumping
information about (Super) Video CD image files(5) and extracting the
contained MPEG-streams.

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
**************************

                         Version 2, June 1991

     Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
     59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA
     
     Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
     of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble
========

   The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.  This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Library General Public License instead.)  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

   When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it in
new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

   To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

   For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

   We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software,
and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

   Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software.  If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

   Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

   The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

    TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a
     notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
     under the terms of this General Public License.  The "Program",
     below, refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on
     the Program" means either the Program or any derivative work under
     copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Program or a
     portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
     translated into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is
     included without limitation in the term "modification".)  Each
     licensee is addressed as "you".

     Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are
     not covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act
     of running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the
     Program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on
     the Program (independent of having been made by running the
     Program).  Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
     source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
     conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
     copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
     notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
     warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of
     this License along with the Program.

     You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,
     and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange
     for a fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
     of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
     distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
     above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

       a. You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

       b. You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that
          in whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program
          or any part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge
          to all third parties under the terms of this License.

       c. If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
          when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
          interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display
          an announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and
          a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you
          provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the
          program under these conditions, and telling the user how to
          view a copy of this License.  (Exception: if the Program
          itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
          announcement, your work based on the Program is not required
          to print an announcement.)

     These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
     identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the
     Program, and can be reasonably considered independent and separate
     works in themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not
     apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
     works.  But when you distribute the same sections as part of a
     whole which is a work based on the Program, the distribution of
     the whole must be on the terms of this License, whose permissions
     for other licensees extend to the entire whole, and thus to each
     and every part regardless of who wrote it.

     Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or
     contest your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the
     intent is to exercise the right to control the distribution of
     derivative or collective works based on the Program.

     In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the
     Program with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on
     a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the
     other work under the scope of this License.

  3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
     under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms
     of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the
     following:

       a. Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
          source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
          Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for
          software interchange; or,

       b. Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
          years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
          cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
          machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
          distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
          medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

       c. Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
          to distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is
          allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
          received the program in object code or executable form with
          such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

     The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
     making modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete
     source code means all the source code for all modules it contains,
     plus any associated interface definition files, plus the scripts
     used to control compilation and installation of the executable.
     However, as a special exception, the source code distributed need
     not include anything that is normally distributed (in either
     source or binary form) with the major components (compiler,
     kernel, and so on) of the operating system on which the executable
     runs, unless that component itself accompanies the executable.

     If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
     access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
     access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
     distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
     compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
     except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
     otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
     void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this
     License.  However, parties who have received copies, or rights,
     from you under this License will not have their licenses
     terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
     signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify
     or distribute the Program or its derivative works.  These actions
     are prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.
     Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any work
     based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this
     License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying,
     distributing or modifying the Program or works based on it.

  6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
     Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
     original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program
     subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any
     further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights
     granted herein.  You are not responsible for enforcing compliance
     by third parties to this License.

  7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
     infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent
     issues), conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order,
     agreement or otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this
     License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this
     License.  If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously
     your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
     obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the
     Program at all.  For example, if a patent license would not permit
     royalty-free redistribution of the Program by all those who
     receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only
     way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
     entirely from distribution of the Program.

     If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable
     under any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is
     intended to apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply
     in other circumstances.

     It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
     patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of
     any such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting
     the integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
     implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
     generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
     through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
     system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is
     willing to distribute software through any other system and a
     licensee cannot impose that choice.

     This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed
     to be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
     certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces,
     the original copyright holder who places the Program under this
     License may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation
     excluding those countries, so that distribution is permitted only
     in or among countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this
     License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of
     this License.

  9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new
     versions of the General Public License from time to time.  Such
     new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but
     may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

     Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the
     Program specifies a version number of this License which applies
     to it and "any later version", you have the option of following
     the terms and conditions either of that version or of any later
     version published by the Free Software Foundation.  If the Program
     does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose
     any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

 10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
     programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the
     author to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted
     by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free Software
     Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our decision
     will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
     all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing
     and reuse of software generally.

                                NO WARRANTY

 11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO
     WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
     LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT
     HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT
     WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
     NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
     FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
     QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE
     PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY
     SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

 12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN
     WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY
     MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE
     LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL,
     INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
     INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF
     DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU
     OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY
     OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN
     ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

                      END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Appendix: How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs
=======================================================

   If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these
terms.

   To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

     ONE LINE TO GIVE THE PROGRAM'S NAME AND A BRIEF IDEA OF WHAT IT DOES.
     Copyright (C) YYYY  NAME OF AUTHOR
     
     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
     it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
     the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
     (at your option) any later version.
     
     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
     but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
     GNU General Public License for more details.
     
     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
     along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
     Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307, USA.

   Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper
mail.

   If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like
this when it starts in an interactive mode:

     Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) 19YY NAME OF AUTHOR
     Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
     This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
     under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

   The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the
appropriate parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the
commands you use may be called something other than `show w' and `show
c'; they could even be mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your
program.

   You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or
your school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program,
if necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

     Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
     `Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.
     
     SIGNATURE OF TY COON, 1 April 1989
     Ty Coon, President of Vice

   This General Public License does not permit incorporating your
program into proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine
library, you may consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary
applications with the library.  If this is what you want to do, use the
GNU Library General Public License instead of this License.

Video CD Concepts
*****************

   This chapter gives some background information regarding the
underlying Video CD technology.

   *Warning:* All information given in this chapter is given without
any warranty of accuracy or correctness. You are encouraged to send
corrections and improvements for this manual to <bug-vcdimager@gnu.org>.

General Information
===================

   The Video Compact Disc ("Video CD" or "VCD") is a standardized
digital video storage format. It is based on the commonly available
Compact Disc technology, which allows for low cost video authoring.
Video CDs can be played in most DVD stand-alone player, dedicated VCD
players and finally most modern computer based systems with multimedia
support.

Anatomy of Video CDs
====================

   In general the layout of a Video CD is made up of the following
areas:

   * ISO9660 data track

        * ISO9660 structure at `00:02:00', consisting of 16 empty
          sectors, primary volume descriptor ("PVD") and directory
          records with file pointers to the later mentioned information
          area structures and external pointers to MPEG/CD-DA tracks
          following the ISO9660 data track.

        * Karaoke area at `00:03:00'

        * Video CD information area at `00:04:00'

        * optional segment play item area with MPEG items aligned in 150
          sector segments

        * optional program and data file area, for additional files
          added to the ISO9660 track


   * up to 98 MPEG mode 2 form 2 or CD-DA tracks embedded in lead-in and
     lead-out empty sectors.


Known Video CD Flavors
======================

   There are different Video CD flavors commonly used. The following
sections tries to explain the differences amongst them.

Video CD 1.1
------------

   This is the most basic Video CD specification dating back to
1993(6), which has the following characteristics:

   * one mode 2 mixed form ISO9660 track containing file pointers to the
     information areas

   * up to 98 multiplexed MPEG-1 audio/video streams or CD-DA audio
     tracks

   * up to 500 MPEG track entry points


   The Video CD specification requires the multiplexed MPEG-1 stream to
have a CBR of about 174300 bytes per second(7) in order to accommodate
single speed CD-ROM drives. The CBR MPEG-1, layer II audio stream is
fixed at 224kbps with 1 stereo or 2 mono channels.  to have one of the
following two resolutions:

   * 352 x 240 @ 29.97 Hz (NTSC)

   * 352 x 240 @ 23.976 Hz (FILM)

Video CD 2.0
------------

   About two years after the Video CD 1.1 specification came out, an
improved Video CD 2.0 standard was published. This one added the
following items to the features already available in the 1.1
specification:

   * Support for (optional) MPEG segment play items ("SPI"), consisting
     of still pictures, motion pictures or audio streams, was added.

   * Support for (optional) interactive playback control ("PBC") was
     added.

   * Support for (optional) playing related access by providing a scan
     point index file was added (`EXT/SCANDATA.DAT')


By adding PAL support to the Video CD 1.1 specification, the following
resolution become available:
   * 352 x 240 @ 29.97 Hz (NTSC)

   * 352 x 240 @ 23.976 Hz (FILM)

   * 352 x 288 @ 25 Hz (PAL)

Extended Video CD
-----------------

   Also known as "XVCD", this is not an official standard. It's
actually just a name for VCDs trying to break conformance to the
official standards in order to use the additional performance of the
DVD decoders and thus achieve better image quality. Such a XVCD may be
unsupported by many available stand-alone playing devices.

Super Video CD 1.0
------------------

   With the upcoming of the DVD media, a new VCD standard had to be
published in order to be able to keep up with technology, so the Super
Video CD specification was called into life. Most notably a switch from
MPEG-1 CBR to MPEG-2 VBR encoding for the video stream was performed.
Based on the Video CD 2.0 features the following items are new:

   * Use of MPEG-2 encoding instead of MPEG-1 for the video stream

   * Allowed VBR encoding of MPEG-1 audio stream

   * Higher resolutions (see below) for the video stream resolution.

   * Overlay graphics and text ("OGT") sub-channel coding for user
     switchable subtitle displaying

For the Super Video CD only the following two resolutions are supported
for motion pictures:

   * 480 x 480 @ 29.97 Hz (NTSC)

   * 480 x 576 @ 25 Hz (PAL)

Extended Super Video CD
-----------------------

   Just like the XVCD, and thus also known as "XSVCD", this is not an
official standard and may not work with all playing devices supporting
SVCDs.

Reference
*********

`vcdimager' Tool
================

   There are a few command-line options for `vcdimager' at the moment:
     $ vcdimager --help
     Usage: vcdimager [OPTION...]
       -t, --type=TYPE                       select VideoCD type ('vcd11',
                                             'vcd2' or 'svcd') (default: 'vcd2')
       -c, --cue-file=FILE                   specify cue file for output
                                             (default: 'videocd.cue')
       -b, --bin-file=FILE                   specify bin file for output
                                             (default: 'videocd.bin')
       -l, --iso-volume-label=LABEL          specify ISO volume label for video
                                             cd (default: 'VideoCD')
       --iso-application-id=LABEL            specify ISO application id for
                                             video cd (default: '')
       --info-album-id=LABEL                 specify album id for video cd set
                                             (default: '')
       --volume-count=NUMBER                 specify number of volumes in
                                             album set
       --volume-number=NUMBER                specify album set sequence number
                                             (< volume-count)
       --broken-svcd-mode                    enable non-compliant compatibility
                                             mode for broken devices
       --sector-2336                         use 2336 byte sectors for output
       --add-dir=DIR                         add directory contents recursively
                                             to ISO fs root
       --add-file=FILE,ISO_FILENAME          add single file to ISO fs
       --add-file-2336=FILE,ISO_FILENAME     add file containing full 2336 byte
                                             sectors to ISO fs
       -p, --progress                        show progress
       -v, --verbose                         be verbose
       -q, --quiet                           show only critical messages
       -V, --version                         display version and copyright
                                             information and exit
     
     Help options:
       -?, --help                            Show this help message
       --usage                               Display brief usage message
     
     $

Requirements For input MPEG streams
-----------------------------------

   GNU VCDImager expects MPEG streams in a format suitable for (Super)
Video CD production.

Video CD
........

   The Video CD specification requires the multiplexed MPEG-1 stream to
have a bit rate of about 174300 bytes per second. The video stream is
required to have one of the following resolutions:

   * 352 x 240 @ 29.97 Hz (NTSC)

   * 352 x 240 @ 23.976 Hz (FILM)

   * 352 x 288 @ 25 Hz (PAL) (not supported on VCD 1.x!)

   The audio stream must be MPEG-1 layer II, fixed to a 224 kbits/sec
CBR with 1 stereo or 2 mono audio channels.

Super Video CD
..............

   When creating Super Video CD images MPEG-2 VBR streams are expected
with a maximum allowed bit-rate of ~2.6 mbits/sec.  The following video
resolutions are (officially) supported(8):

   * 480 x 480 @ 29.97 Hz (NTSC)

   * 480 x 576 @ 25 Hz (PAL)

   There are a few other requirements imposed the specification, like
the need to encode scan information as user data in the picture layer
of all intra pictures, and the requirement to precede every I picture
by a GOP header which shall be preceded by a sequence header in its
turn and possibly begin all in the same packet, thus forming a so
called access point sector.

   The audio stream must be MPEG-1 layer II, with a bit-rate ranging
from 32 to 384 kbps kbits/sec bit-rate with up to 2 stereo or 4 mono
channels, or 1 extended MPEG-1/2 multichannel (5+1) surround sound
stream.

Common Constraints
..................

   Furthermore the MPEG files should be aligned to 2324 byte MPEG
packet boundaries. If they aren't GNU VCDImager will try to align them
on the fly while issuing a warning that padding was needed.

   If on-the-fly padding should fail, you can try fixing those files
with VCDpad (9) or any other program capable of aligning or fixing MPEG
packets.

Adding Files to the Video CD
----------------------------

   Files can be added to the ISO file-system, that is the first track
of the Video CD, by making use of the command-line options
`--add-file=FILE,ISO_FILENAME' and `--add-file-2336=FILE,ISO_FILENAME'.
The latter option allows you to include files containing the complete
user data of mode 2 CD-ROM sectors (10).

   The path name given as ISO_FILENAME determines where to link the
file in the file-system of the Video CD. The given path name must be a
valid ISO9660 file name with the following restrictions:
   * The Character set is restricted to upper case letters, numbers, the
     underscore `_', the dot `.' and the slash `/'.

   * The maximum file name length is restricted to 31 characters, the
     directory nesting level is restricted to 8 and the maximum path
     length is limited to 255 characters.

   * File names must contain exactly one dot.(11)

   * The path-name must not begin or end with a slash. Nor should it
     contain slashes following directly each other.


   If the parent directory for a file entry does not exist it will be
created automatically on demand.

CD-i Support
------------

   There is no specific CD-i support in GNU VCDImager. But you can use
the general facilities for adding a custom CD-i player application.

   If you happen to have a CD-i application consisting of the files
`cdi_imag.rtf', `cdi_text.fnt', `cdi_vcd.app' and `cdi_vcd.cfg', with
`cdi_vcd.app' being the main application executable, you could add the
following lines to your `~/.popt' popt(12) aliasing file(13)

     vcdimager alias --cdi \
     	--iso-application-id "CDI/CDI_VCD.APP;1" \
     	--add-file-2336 /usr/share/cdi/cdi_imag.rtf,CDI/CDI_IMAG.RTF \
     	--add-file      /usr/share/cdi/cdi_text.fnt,CDI/CDI_TEXT.FNT \
     	--add-file      /usr/share/cdi/cdi_vcd.app,CDI/CDI_VCD.APP \
     	--add-file      /usr/share/cdi/cdi_vcd.cfg,CDI/CDI_VCD.CFG

`vcdrip' Tool
=============

   The `vcdrip' utility offers just a few command line options:
     $ vcdrip --help
     Usage: vcdrip [OPTION...]
       -b, --bin-file=FILE       set image file as source
       --sector-2336             use 2336 byte sector mode for image file
       --cdrom-device=DEVICE     set CDROM device as source (Linux only)
       -d, --dump                dump information about VideoCD
       --rip                     rip mpeg tracks
       --rip-spi                 rip segment play items
       -v, --verbose             be verbose
       -q, --quiet               show only critical messages
       -V, --version             display version and copyright information
                                 and exit
     
     Help options:
       -?, --help                Show this help message
       --usage                   Display brief usage message
     
     $

Examples
********

Simple Multitrack Example
=========================

   In the following example session, the files `track1.mpg',
`track2.mpg' and `track3.mpg' are mastered into the default output
files `videocd.cue' and `videocd.bin'. The volume label is set to `My
Test VCD'.

     $ vcdimager --iso-volume-label="My Test VCD" track1.mpg track2 track3.mpg
     finished ok, image created with 13421 sectors (31566192 bytes)
     $

MPEG Extraction
===============

   The next example show how to extract the MPEG streams contained in
the image file `test.bin' (the resulting streams are stored in files
named `track_##.mpg' with `##' being the track number, starting with 0).

     $ vcdrip-devel -v --rip --bin-file=test.bin
     --DEBUG: found ENTRIES.VCD/SVD
        INFO: track_00.mpg: 1262 -> 2555
     --DEBUG:  stream leadin at 1292
     --DEBUG:  stream leadout at 2360
        INFO: track_01.mpg: 2555 -> 101705
     --DEBUG:  stream leadin at 2585
     --DEBUG:  stream leadout at 101510
        INFO: track_02.mpg: 101705 -> 200994
     --DEBUG:  stream leadin at 101735
     --DEBUG:  stream leadout at 200799
        INFO: track_03.mpg: 200994 -> 300041
     --DEBUG:  stream leadin at 201024
     --DEBUG:  stream leadout at 299996
     $

Acronym Expansions
******************

CBR
     constant bit rate

CD
     compact disc

CD-DA
     CD digital audio

CD-ROM
     CD read only memory

DVD
     digital versatile/video disc

FSF
     free software foundation, <http://www.fsf.org/>

GNU
     GNU is not UNIX, <http://www.gnu.org/>

MPEG
     movie picture experts group

OGT
     overlay graphics & text

PBC
     playback control

PVD
     primary volume descriptor

SVCD
     Super VCD

VBR
     variable bit rate

VCD
     Video CD

XSVCD
     eXtended SVCD

XVCD
     eXtended VCD

   ---------- Footnotes ----------

   (1) see <http://www.gnu.org/software/vcdimager/>

   (2) see <http://www.ping.de/sites/daneb/cdrdao.html>

   (3) the core of the GNU VCDImager package consists of a library
named `libvcd', the front ends are just user interfaces to the exported
C-API

   (4) ...though most devices will have problems with such out of
specification media. You may want use the `--sector-2336' option for
images longer than 80 minutes

   (5) on Linux it is supported to operate directly on CD-ROM devices

   (6) actually this flavor was based on the Karaoke-CD, which was the
first MPEG based CD-ROM format.

   (7) 2324 bytes of payload per sector * 75 sectors per second =
174300 bytes per second

   (8) actually you can try other resoulutions as well, but then you
are leaving the SVCD specification behind you...

   (9) see <http://www.nocrew.org/?part=vcdpad>

   (10) 8 bytes for sub-header, 2324 bytes payload and finally 4 bytes
for EDC

   (11) if no file name extension is supposed to exist the dot must be
placed as a trailing dot.

   (12) see documentation for popt for more information about option
aliasing

   (13) add it to `/etc/popt' if the setting should be available
system-wide

